2025-03-16 (#4881)
Azure/AKS: CHANGELOG.md

# Azure Kubernetes Service Changelog

## Release 2025-03-16

Monitor the release status by region at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled `v20250316`.

### Announcements

> * AKS Kubernetes version 1.32 roll out has been delayed and is now expected to reach all regions on or before the end of April. Please use the [az-aks-get-versions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-versions) command to accurately capture if Kubernetes version 1.32 is available in your region.

Author: ```suggestion
* Starting in April 2025, Azure Kubernetes Service will begin rolling out a change to enable quota for all current and new AKS customers. AKS quota will represent a limit of the maximum number of managed clusters that an Azure subscription can consume per region. Existing AKS customer subscriptions will be given a quota limit at or above their current usage, depending on region availability. Once quota is enabled, customers can view their available quota and request quota increases in the Quotas page in the Azure Portal or by using the Quotas REST API. For details on how to view and request quota increases via the Portal Quotas page, visit [Azure Quotas](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quotas/view-quotas). For details on how to view and request quota increases via the Quotas REST API, visit: [Azure Quota REST API Reference](https://learn.microsoft.com/rest/api/reserved-vm-instances/quotaapi). New AKS customer subscriptions will be given a default limit upon new subscription creation. More information on the default limits for new subscriptions is available in documentation [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits).
* AKS Kubernetes version 1.32 roll out has been delayed and is now expected to reach all regions on or before the end of April. Please use the [az-aks-get-versions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-versions) command to accurately capture if Kubernetes version 1.32 is available in your region.
```

> * AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 will be the next [Long Term Support](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/long-term-support) version.

Author: ```suggestion
* AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 will be the next [Long Term Support](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/long-term-support) version.
* You can now [switch non-LTS clusters](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions?tabs=azure-cli#faq) on Kubernetes versions 1.25 onwards and within 3 versions of the current LTS versions to LTS by switching their tier to Premium.
```

# Azure Kubernetes Service Changelog

## Release 2025-03-16

> Monitor the release status by region at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled `v20250320`.

Author: ```suggestion
Monitor the release status by region at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled `v20250316`.
```

### Announcements
* AKS Kubernetes version 1.32 roll out has been delayed and is now expected to reach all regions on or before the end of April. Please use the [az-aks-get-versions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-versions) command to accurately capture if Kubernetes version 1.32 is available in your region.
* AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 will be the next [Long Term Support](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/long-term-support) version.

> * HTTP Application Routing (preview) is going to be [retired on March 3, 2025](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=retirement-http-application-routing-addon-preview-for-aks-will-retire-03032025) and AKS will start to block new cluster creation with HTTP Application Routing (preview) enabled. Affected clusters must migrate to the generally available Application Routing add-on prior to that date. Refer to the [migration guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-migration) for more information.

Reviewer: We're now on March 21st. This still relevant?

> * HTTP Application Routing (preview) is going to be [retired on March 3, 2025](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=retirement-http-application-routing-addon-preview-for-aks-will-retire-03032025) and AKS will start to block new cluster creation with HTTP Application Routing (preview) enabled. Affected clusters must migrate to the generally available Application Routing add-on prior to that date. Refer to the [migration guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-migration) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* On 31 March 2025, AKS will no longer allow new cluster creation with the Basic Load Balancer. On 30 September 2025, the Basic Load Balancer will be retired. We will be posting updates on migration paths to the Standard Load Balancer. See [AKS Basic LB Migration Issue](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/1687) for updates on when a simplified upgrade path is available. Refer to [Basic Load Balancer Deprecation Update](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=azure-basic-load-balancer-will-be-retired-on-30-september-2025-upgrade-to-standard-load-balancer) for more information.

> * The asm-1-22 revision for the Istio add-on has been deprecated. Migrate to a supported revision following the [AKS Istio upgrade guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).

Author: ```suggestion
* The asm-1-22 revision for the Istio-based service mesh add-on has been deprecated. Migrate to a supported revision following the [AKS Istio upgrade guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).
```

### Release Notes
* Features:
   * Application routing add-on support for [configuring the default NGINX ingress controller visibility](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-nginx-configuration?tabs=azurecli#control-the-default-ingress-controller-configuration-when-creating-the-cluster) is now generally available in API 2025-02-01.
   * Kubernetes events for monitoring [node auto-repair](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/node-auto-repair) actions are now available for your AKS cluster. You can ingest these events and create alerts following the same [process as other Kubernetes events](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/events?tabs=azure-cli).
   * AKS [Kubernetes patch versions](https://kubernetes.io/releases/patch-releases/) 1.29.12, 1.29.13, 1.30.8, 1.30.9, 1.31.4, and 1.31.5 are now available.
   * [Application Gateway Ingress Controller](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/application-gateway/tutorial-ingress-controller-add-on-new) now supports Azure CNI overlay clusters.

>    * You can now upgrade AKS clusters with Azure Service Mesh enabled regardless of the compatibility with the current mesh revision, allowing to recover to a compatible and supported state. For more information, visit [istio upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).

Reviewer: Azure Service Mesh is not an approved marketing name for the Istio managed addon.

>    * You can now upgrade AKS clusters with Azure Service Mesh enabled regardless of the compatibility with the current mesh revision, allowing to recover to a compatible and supported state. For more information, visit [istio upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).

Author: ```suggestion
   * You can now upgrade AKS clusters with the Istio-based service mesh add-on enabled regardless of the compatibility with the current mesh revision, allowing to recover to a compatible and supported state. For more information, visit [istio upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).
   * Istio-based service mesh add-on users can now customize the `externalTrafficPolicy` field in the Istio ingress gateway `Service` spec. AKS will no longer reconcile this field, preserving user-defined values.
```

   * Istio-based service mesh add-on users can now customize the `externalTrafficPolicy` field in the Istio ingress gateway `Service` spec. AKS will no longer reconcile this field, preserving user-defined values.
   * AKS now supports upgrading from Node Subnet to Node Subnet + Cilium and from Node Subnet + Cilium to Azure CNI Overlay + Cilium. For more information, please see our [upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-azure-cni#upgrade-to-azure-cni-powered-by-cilium).
   * [Message of the day](https://aka.ms/aks/message-of-the-day) is now generally available.

>    * You can now enable [Federal Information Process Standard (FIPS)](https://aka.ms/aks/enable-fips) when using [Arm64 VM SKUs](https://aka.ms/aks/arm64). This is only supported for Azure Linux 3.0 node pools on Kubernetes version 1.32+.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * You can now enable [Federal Information Process Standard (FIPS)](https://aka.ms/aks/enable-fips) when using [Arm64 VM SKUs](https://aka.ms/aks/arm64). This is only supported for Azure Linux 3.0 node pools on Kubernetes version 1.32+.
   * AKS support to [skip the default GPU driver installation](https://aka.ms/aks/skip-gpu-drivers) on Linux and Windows node pools is now generally available.
```

>    * Istio revision `asm-1-24` is now available with Istio-based service mesh add-on. Please refer to [Istio's release announcement](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.24.x/announcing-1.24/) for a full list of changes. Note that this release removes the deprecated `istio.io/gateway-name` label, please use `gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name` label instead.

Reviewer: This is a component update?

Author: It is but it also has a breaking change/retirement. I can move it there.

>    * Istio revision `asm-1-24` is now available with Istio-based service mesh add-on. Please refer to [Istio's release announcement](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.24.x/announcing-1.24/) for a full list of changes. Note that this release removes the deprecated `istio.io/gateway-name` label, please use `gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name` label instead.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* Preview Features:
   * You can use the `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` feature in preview to [create Cilium node subnet clusters](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-3-assign-ip-addresses-from-the-node-subnet-preview) using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

>    * [Control plane metrics](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/control-plane-metrics-monitor) are now available through Azure Monitor platform metrics in preview to monitor critical control plane components such as API server, etcd, scheculer, autoscaler, and controller-manager.

Author: ```suggestion
   * [Control plane metrics](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/control-plane-metrics-monitor) are now available through Azure Monitor platform metrics in preview to monitor critical control plane components such as API server and etcd.
```

>    * [Control plane metrics](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/control-plane-metrics-monitor) are now available through Azure Monitor platform metrics in preview to monitor critical control plane components such as API server, etcd, scheculer, autoscaler, and controller-manager.

Reviewer: Kubernetes controller manager or cloud controller manager?

   * Fixed an issue where SSHAccess was being reset to the default value `enabled` on partial PUT requests for `managedCluster.AgentPoolProfile.SecurityProfile` without specifying SSHAccess.
   * Fixed an issue where Node Auto Provisioning (Karpenter) failed to properly apply the `kubernetes.azure.com/azure-cni-overlay=true` label to nodes which resulted in failure to assign pod IPs in some cases.
   * Fixed an issue where `calico-typha` could be scheduled on virtual-kubelet due to overly permissive tolerations. Tolerations are now properly restricted to prevent incorrect scheduling. Check this [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4667) for more details.
   * Fixed an issue in Hubble-Relay scheduling behavior to prevent deployment on cordoned nodes, allowing the cluster autoscaler to properly scale down nodes.
   * Fixed an issue where pods could get stuck in `ContainerCreating` during Cilium+NodeSubnet to Cilium+Overlay upgrades by ensuring the original network configuration is retained on existing nodes.

>    * Fixed an issue where priority class isn't set on the [Custom CA Trust DaemonSet](https://aka.ms/aks/custom-certificate-authority). This change ensures that the DaemonSet will not be evicted first in case of node pressure.

Author: ```suggestion
   * Fixed an issue where priority class isn't set on the [Custom CA Trust DaemonSet](https://aka.ms/aks/custom-certificate-authority). This change ensures that the DaemonSet will not be evicted first in case of node pressure.
   * Fixed an issue where policy enforcements through Azure Policy addon were interrupted during cluster scaling or upgrade operations due to a [missing Pod Disruption Budget (PDB)](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4675) for the Gatekeeper webhook pods.
```

   * Fixed an issue where policy enforcements through Azure Policy addon were interrupted during cluster scaling or upgrade operations due to a [missing Pod Disruption Budget (PDB)](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4675) for the Gatekeeper webhook pods.

* Behavior Changes:

>    * KAITO switched from using the `Machine` CRD to `NodeClaim` CRD, introducing a breaking change in term of resource clean up after workspace is deleted. Specifically, existing workspaces and GPU nodes will remain unaffected. For users who wish to delete old workspaces, manual deletion of `Machine` custom resource and AgentPools from the Azure portal (or CLI) is required in order to clean up the GPU nodes used by the old workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * AI toolchain operator add-on has switched from using the `Machine` CRD to `NodeClaim` CRD, introducing a change in the experience to clean up resources after a KAITO workspace is deleted. Note that existing workspaces and GPU nodes provisioned by the add-on remain unaffected. Please refer to the [updated AKS guidance](https://aka.ms/aks/ai-toolchain-operator) for deletion of resources provisioned in old workspaces.
```

>    * Azure Policy addon now includes a Pod Disruption Budget (PDB) for the Gatekeeper webhook pods. This prevents interruptions to policy enforcement during cluster scaling or upgrade operations.

Reviewer: This has a GH issue corresponding to it to close https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4675

Author: I'll move to bug fixes.

>    * Azure Policy addon now includes a Pod Disruption Budget (PDB) for the Gatekeeper webhook pods. This prevents interruptions to policy enforcement during cluster scaling or upgrade operations.

Author: ```suggestion 
```

   * AKS will now enforce the limit of 10 unique CAs added to the node's trust store when using [Custom Certificate Authority](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/custom-certificate-authority).
   * Default maxSurge value to 10% for all new and existing clusters with Kubernetes versions >= 1.32.0.

>    * Starting with Kubernetes 1.32, all Azure CNI NodeSubnet clusters will have the CNI installed via the Azure CNS DaemonSet instead of the CSE script.

Reviewer: CSE script is a lesser known implementation detail. Use customer language such as "instead of installed during node provisioning"

>    * Starting with Kubernetes 1.32, all Azure CNI NodeSubnet clusters will have the CNI installed via the Azure CNS DaemonSet instead of the CSE script.

Author: ```suggestion
   * Starting with Kubernetes 1.32, all Azure CNI NodeSubnet clusters will have the CNI installed via the Azure CNS DaemonSet instead of during node provisioning.
```

>    * Azure Service Mesh (Istio) add-on users can now customize the `externalTrafficPolicy` field in the Istio ingress gateway `Service` spec. AKS will no longer reconcile this field, preserving user-defined values.

Reviewer: Same comment above about naming

Reviewer: Also is this a behavior change or a feature, there's really not active change, we just now allow you to specify it

>    * Azure Service Mesh (Istio) add-on users can now customize the `externalTrafficPolicy` field in the Istio ingress gateway `Service` spec. AKS will no longer reconcile this field, preserving user-defined values.

Author: ```suggestion
```
Will move to features.

>    * AKS now validates Istio custom resources that do not have the `istio.io/rev` label set.

Reviewer: What behavior does this change?

Reviewer 3: Previous behavior was that cx had to have that label for validation, but now custom resouces get validation even without the lable.

Author: So @chasewilson are you good with the wording or do you have another suggestion?

Reviewer 4: Added snippet on prior behavior trust @chasewilson to document this.

>    * When creating an [Azure Container Registry (ACR) cache rule](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/network-isolated?pivots=byo-acr#step-2-create-the-acr-and-enable-artifact-cache) to cache Microsoft Container Registry (MCR) container images in the private ACR, the required cache rule should be changed from `/*` to `aks-managed-repository/*`.

Reviewer 5: not yet. I'm taking up this change now.

>    * When creating a [private Azure Container Registry (ACR)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/network-isolated?pivots=byo-acr#step-2-create-the-acr-and-enable-artifact-cache), [anonymous pull access](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/anonymous-pull-access) for will be set to false by default for newly enabled Network Isolated Cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
   * When creating a network isolated cluster with a managed [private Azure Container Registry (ACR)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/network-isolated?pivots=byo-acr#step-2-create-the-acr-and-enable-artifact-cache), the registry will now have [anonymous pull access](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/anonymous-pull-access) set to false.
```

* Component Updates:

>    * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to [v1.31.5](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.31.5) on AKS 1.31, [v1.30.9](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.30.9) on AKS 1.30.

Author: ```suggestion
  * Istio revision `asm-1-24` is now available with Istio-based service mesh add-on. Please refer to [Istio's release announcement](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.24.x/announcing-1.24/) for a full list of changes. Note that this release removes the deprecated `istio.io/gateway-name` label, please use `gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name` label instead.
  * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to [v1.31.5](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.31.5) on AKS 1.31, [v1.30.9](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.30.9) on AKS 1.30.
```

   * Update Azure File CSI driver to [v1.31.4](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.31.4) on AKS 1.31, [v1.30.8](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.30.8) on AKS 1.30.
   * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to [v1.25.3](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blob-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.25.3)  on AKS 1.31, [v1.24.7](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blob-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.24.7) on AKS 1.30.

>    * Update KAITO to [v0.4.4](https://github.com/kaito-project/kaito/releases/tag/v0.4.4).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Update AI toolchain operator add-on (preview) to [KAITO v0.4.4](https://github.com/kaito-project/kaito/releases/tag/v0.4.4).
```

>    * Update Cilium to v1.17.0 for AKS clusters >= 1.32.0.

Author: ```suggestion
   * Update Cilium to [v1.17.0](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/releases/tag/v1.17.0) for AKS clusters >= 1.32.0.
```

   * Update Azure Monitor Container Insights image to [v3.1.26](https://github.com/microsoft/Docker-Provider/releases/tag/3.1.26).
   * Update Azure Monitor metrics image to [v6.15.0](https://github.com/Azure/prometheus-collector/blob/main/RELEASENOTES.md#release-02-21-2025) for all AKS cluster versions addressing CVE-2024-45338.
   * Update Credential Provider to [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/), [v1.30.10](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.30.10/), [v1.31.4](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.31.4/), and [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/).
   * Update Cloud Controller Manager [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/), [v1.30.10](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.30.10/), [v1.31.4](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.31.4/), and [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/).

>    * Update the Application Gateway Ingress Controller add-on to v1.8.0, adding support for CNI Overlay.

Reviewer: Also there isn't an addon for this yet, this is AGC support for overlay, and AGC isn't an addon yet?

>    * Update the Application Gateway Ingress Controller add-on to v1.8.0, adding support for CNI Overlay.

Author: ```suggestion
   * Update the Application Gateway Ingress Controller add-on to [v1.8.0](https://github.com/Azure/application-gateway-kubernetes-ingress/releases/tag/1.8.0), adding support for CNI Overlay.
```

   * Update windows-gmsa-webhook-image version has been bumped to [v0.12.1[(https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/windows-gmsa/releases/tag/v0.12.1)] to address security vulnerabilities. There is no functionality change between v0.10.0 and v1.21.1.
   * Update Calico to [v3.28.3](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/releases/tag/v3.28.3), TigeraOperator to [v1.34.8](https://github.com/tigera/operator/releases/tag/v1.34.8), Calico to [v3.29.2](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/releases/tag/v3.29.2), and TigeraOperator to [v1.36.5](https://github.com/tigera/operator/releases/tag/v1.34.8), addressing security vulnerabilities including [CVE-2024-45337](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45337) and [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338).
   * Update Node Auto Provisioning to use Karpenter [v0.7.3](https://github.com/Azure/karpenter-provider-azure/releases/tag/v0.7.3).

>    * Update defender-admission-controller version from 20250212.3 to 20250304.1 to address [CVE-2024-56138](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-56138) and [CVE-2024-45339](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45339).

Reviewer: Link to defender release notes?

Author: I didn't find a link to public release notes for this.

   * Revert CoreDNS to v1.11.3-6 for AKS clusters on version 1.32+ due to an upstream regression in [v1.12.0](https://github.com/coredns/coredns/pull/6898). This version of CoreDNS is built using go version 1.23.3, OS family=azurelinux, version=3.0, and has no CVEs reported.

>    * Update the `azure-ip-masq-agent` DaemonSet to use the `ip-masq-v2 image` built with Dalec addressing [CVE-2024-5535](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-5535) and [CVE-2024-9143](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-9143).

Reviewer: build with Dalec relevant?

>    * Update the `azure-ip-masq-agent` DaemonSet to use the `ip-masq-v2 image` built with Dalec addressing [CVE-2024-5535](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-5535) and [CVE-2024-9143](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-9143).

Author: ```suggestion
   * Update the `azure-ip-masq-agent` DaemonSet to use the `ip-masq-v2 image` addressing [CVE-2024-5535](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-5535) and [CVE-2024-9143](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-9143).
```

   * Update Azure Policy add-on to v1.10.0 which uses gatekeeper [v3.18.2](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/releases/tag/v3.18.2).
   * AKS Azure Linux v2 image has been updated to [202503.13.0](vhd-notes/AzureLinux/202503.13.0.txt).
   * AKS Ubuntu 22.04 node image has been updated to [202503.13.0](vhd-notes/aks-ubuntu/AKSUbuntu-2204/202503.13.0.txt).
   * AKS Ubuntu 24.04 node image has been updated to [202503.13.0](vhd-notes/aks-ubuntu/AKSUbuntu-2404/202503.13.0.txt).
   * AKS Windows Server 2019 image has been updated to [17763.7009.250316](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2019/17763.7009.250316.txt).
   * AKS Windows Server 2022 image has been updated to [20348.3328.250314](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2022/20348.3328.250314.txt).
   * AKS Windows Server 23H2 image has been updated to [25398.1486.250314](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/23H2/25398.1486.250314.txt).

## Release 2025-02-20

> Monitor the release status by region at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled `v20250220`.

Reviewer 6: Change from v20250220 -> v20250316

Author: This is last month's release note

### Release Notes
* Features:
   * Application routing add-on support for [configuring the default NGINX ingress controller visibility](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-nginx-configuration?tabs=azurecli#control-the-default-ingress-controller-configuration-when-creating-the-cluster) is now generally available in API 2025-02-01.
   * Kubernetes events for monitoring [node auto-repair](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/node-auto-repair) actions are now available for your AKS cluster. You can ingest these events and create alerts following the same [process as other Kubernetes events](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/events?tabs=azure-cli).
   * AKS [Kubernetes patch versions](https://kubernetes.io/releases/patch-releases/) 1.29.12, 1.29.13, 1.30.8, 1.30.9, 1.31.4, and 1.31.5 are now available.
   * [Application Gateway Ingress Controller](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/application-gateway/tutorial-ingress-controller-add-on-new) now supports Azure CNI overlay clusters.

>    * You can now upgrade AKS clusters with Azure Service Mesh enabled regardless of the compatibility with the current mesh revision, allowing to recover to a compatible and supported state. For more information, visit [istio upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   * You can now upgrade AKS clusters with Azure Service Mesh enabled regardless of the compatibility with the current mesh revision, allowing to recover to a compatible and supported state. For more information, visit [istio upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).
```

Reviewer 5: maybe best to call out this part ("Once an AKS version or mesh revision falls outside the support window, upgrading either version becomes error-prone. While such upgrades are allowed to recover to a supported version, the upgrade process and the out-of-support versions themselves are both not supported by Microsoft. We strongly recommend keeping AKS version and mesh revision up to date to avoid running into unsupported scenarios.") of that doc here in the release notes too

   * You can now enable [Federal Information Process Standard (FIPS)](https://aka.ms/aks/enable-fips) when using [Arm64 VM SKUs](https://aka.ms/aks/arm64). This is only supported for Azure Linux 3.0 node pools on Kubernetes version 1.32+.
   * Istio revision `asm-1-24` is now available with Istio-based service mesh add-on. Please refer to [Istio's release announcement](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.24.x/announcing-1.24/) for a full list of changes. Note that this release removes the deprecated `istio.io/gateway-name` label, please use `gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name` label instead.

* Preview Features:
   * You can use the `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` feature in preview to [create Cilium node subnet clusters](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-3-assign-ip-addresses-from-the-node-subnet-preview) using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.
   * [Control plane metrics](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/control-plane-metrics-monitor) are now available through Azure Monitor platform metrics in preview to monitor critical control plane components such as API server, etcd, scheculer, autoscaler, and controller-manager.

* Bug Fixes:

>    * Fixed an [issue](https://github.com/microsoft/retina/issues/1386 ) with the Retina-Agent volume to restrict access to only `/var/run/cilium` directory. Currently retina-agent mounts `/var/run` from host directory. This can have potential issue as it can overwrite data in the directory.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   * Fixed an [issue](https://github.com/microsoft/retina/issues/1386) with the retina-agent volume to restrict access to only `/var/run/cilium` directory. Currently retina-agent mounts `/var/run` from host directory. This can have potential issue as it can overwrite data in the directory.
```

   * Starting with Kubernetes 1.32, all Azure CNI NodeSubnet clusters will have the CNI installed via the Azure CNS DaemonSet instead of the CSE script.
   * Azure Service Mesh (Istio) add-on users can now customize the `externalTrafficPolicy` field in the Istio ingress gateway `Service` spec. AKS will no longer reconcile this field, preserving user-defined values.
   * AKS now validates Istio custom resources that do not have the `istio.io/rev` label set.
   * When creating an [Azure Container Registry (ACR) cache rule](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/network-isolated?pivots=byo-acr#step-2-create-the-acr-and-enable-artifact-cache) to cache Microsoft Container Registry (MCR) container images in the private ACR, the required cache rule should be changed from `/*` to `aks-managed-repository/*`.
   * When creating a [private Azure Container Registry (ACR)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/network-isolated?pivots=byo-acr#step-2-create-the-acr-and-enable-artifact-cache), [anonymous pull access](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/anonymous-pull-access) for will be set to false by default for newly enabled Network Isolated Cluster.

* Component Updates:

>    * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to v1.30.8  on AKS 1.30, 1.31, v1.31.4  on AKS 1.32.

Reviewer 5: this line can be removed as the next line has more recent updates

# Azure Kubernetes Service Changelog

> ## Release 2025-03-20

Reviewer 7: Update release name

Reviewer 8: Should be 2025-03-16

> ## Release 2025-03-20

Author: ```suggestion
## Release 2025-03-16
```

> Monitor the release status by region at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled `v20250320`.

Reviewer 7: Update release name

### Announcements
* AKS Kubernetes version 1.32 roll out has been delayed and is now expected to reach all regions on or before the end of April. Please use the [az-aks-get-versions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-versions) command to accurately capture if Kubernetes version 1.32 is available in your region.

> * AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 will be the next Long Term Support version.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 will be the next [Long Term Support](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/long-term-support) version.
```

* HTTP Application Routing (preview) is going to be [retired on March 3, 2025](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=retirement-http-application-routing-addon-preview-for-aks-will-retire-03032025) and AKS will start to block new cluster creation with HTTP Application Routing (preview) enabled. Affected clusters must migrate to the generally available Application Routing add-on prior to that date. Refer to the [migration guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-migration) for more information.

> * Using the GPU VHD image (preview) to provision GPU-enabled AKS nodes was retired on January 10, 2025 and AKS will block creation of new node pools with the GPU VHD image (preview). Follow the detailed steps to [create GPU-enabled node pools](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/gpu-cluster?tabs=add-ubuntu-gpu-node-pool#use-the-aks-gpu-image-preview) using the alternative supported options.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 7: Already has been in release notes, can remove it now

* On 31 March 2025, AKS will no longer allow new cluster creation with the Basic Load Balancer. On 30 September 2025, the Basic Load Balancer will be retired. We will be posting updates on migration paths to the Standard Load Balancer. See [AKS Basic LB Migration Issue](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/1687) for updates on when a simplified upgrade path is available. Refer to [Basic Load Balancer Deprecation Update](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=azure-basic-load-balancer-will-be-retired-on-30-september-2025-upgrade-to-standard-load-balancer) for more information.
* The asm-1-22 revision for the Istio add-on has been deprecated. Migrate to a supported revision following the [AKS Istio upgrade guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).

> * The pod security policy feature was retired on 1st August 2023 and removed from AKS versions 1.25 and higher. PodSecurityPolicy property will be officially removed from AKS API starting from 2025-03-01.

Reviewer 8: Added a link to Pod security policy: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-pod-security-policies

> * The pod security policy feature was retired on 1st August 2023 and removed from AKS versions 1.25 and higher. PodSecurityPolicy property will be officially removed from AKS API starting from 2025-03-01.

Author: ```suggestion
* The [pod security policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-pod-security-policies) feature was retired on 1st August 2023 and removed from AKS versions 1.25 and higher. PodSecurityPolicy property will be officially removed from AKS API starting from 2025-03-01.
```

* Starting on 17 June 2025, AKS will no longer create new node images for [Ubuntu 18.04](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4873) or provide security updates. Existing node images will be deleted. Your node pools will be unsupported and you will no longer be able to scale. To avoid service disruptions, scaling restrictions, and remain supported, please follow our instructions to [upgrade](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) to a [supported Kubernetes version](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions).
* Starting on 17 March 2027, AKS will no longer create new node images for [Ubuntu 20.04](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4874) or provide security updates. Existing node images will be deleted. Your node pools will be unsupported and you will no longer be able to scale. To avoid service disruptions, scaling restrictions, and remain supported, please follow our instructions to [upgrade](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) to Kubernetes version 1.34+ by the retirement date.  

> * The Basic Load Balancer is going to be retired on September 30, 2025 and AKS will start to block new cluster creation with the Basic Load Balancers starting March 31, 2025. Refer to [Basic Load Balancer Deprecation Update](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates?id=azure-basic-load-balancer-will-be-retired-on-30-september-2025-upgrade-to-standard-load-balancer) for more information.

Reviewer 7: Duplicate, see line 12

> * The Basic Load Balancer is going to be retired on September 30, 2025 and AKS will start to block new cluster creation with the Basic Load Balancers starting March 31, 2025. Refer to [Basic Load Balancer Deprecation Update](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates?id=azure-basic-load-balancer-will-be-retired-on-30-september-2025-upgrade-to-standard-load-balancer) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Release Notes
* Features:
   * Application routing add-on support for [configuring the default NGINX ingress controller visibility](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-nginx-configuration?tabs=azurecli#control-the-default-ingress-controller-configuration-when-creating-the-cluster) is now generally available in API 2025-02-01.
   * Kubernetes events for monitoring [node auto-repair](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/node-auto-repair) actions are now available for your AKS cluster. You can ingest these events and create alerts following the same [process as other Kubernetes events](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/events?tabs=azure-cli).
   * AKS [Kubernetes patch versions](https://kubernetes.io/releases/patch-releases/) 1.29.12, 1.29.13, 1.30.8, 1.30.9, 1.31.4, and 1.31.5 are now available.

>    * Application Gateway Ingress Controller now supports Azure CNI overlay clusters.

Reviewer 7: Link to docs on application gateway ingress controller?

>    * Application Gateway Ingress Controller now supports Azure CNI overlay clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
   * [Application Gateway Ingress Controller](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/application-gateway/tutorial-ingress-controller-add-on-new) now supports Azure CNI overlay clusters.
```

>    * You can now upgrade AKS clusters with Azure Service Mesh enabled regardless of the compatibility with the current mesh revision, allowing to recover to a compatible and supported state. For more information, visit https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/istio-upgrade.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
   * You can now upgrade AKS clusters with Azure Service Mesh enabled regardless of the compatibility with the current mesh revision, allowing to recover to a compatible and supported state. For more information, visit [istio upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).
```

Reviewer 7: feel free to reword, just recommending hyperlink

>    * AKS now supports upgrading from Node Subnet to Node Subnet + Cilium and from Node Subnet + Cilium to Azure CNI Overlay + Cilium.

Reviewer 7: Docs showing how to do this?

Author: > Docs showing how to do this?

Waiting on Chase.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * AKS now supports upgrading from Node Subnet to Node Subnet + Cilium and from Node Subnet + Cilium to Azure CNI Overlay + Cilium. For more information, please see our [upgrade documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-azure-cni#upgrade-to-azure-cni-powered-by-cilium)
```

   * You can now enable [Federal Information Process Standard (FIPS)](https://aka.ms/aks/enable-fips) when using [Arm64 VM SKUs](https://aka.ms/aks/arm64). This is only supported for Azure Linux 3.0 node pools on Kubernetes version 1.32+.
   * Istio revision `asm-1-24` is now available with Istio-based service mesh add-on. Please refer to [Istio's release announcement](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.24.x/announcing-1.24/) for a full list of changes. Note that this release removes the deprecated `istio.io/gateway-name` label, please use `gateway.networking.k8s.io/gateway-name` label instead.

* Preview Features:
   * You can use the `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` feature in preview to [create Cilium node subnet clusters](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium#option-3-assign-ip-addresses-from-the-node-subnet-preview) using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.
   * [Control plane metrics](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/control-plane-metrics-monitor) are now available through Azure Monitor platform metrics in preview to monitor critical control plane components such as API server, etcd, scheculer, autoscaler, and controller-manager.

>    * FIPS-enabled node pools with Arm64 VMs are now supported when using Azure Linux 3.0 in Kubernetes 1.32. See https://aka.ms/aks/arm64-node-pool for more information.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 7: This is technically GA

* Behavior Changes:
   * KAITO switched from using the `Machine` CRD to `NodeClaim` CRD, introducing a breaking change in term of resource clean up after workspace is deleted. Specifically, existing workspaces and GPU nodes will remain unaffected. For users who wish to delete old workspaces, manual deletion of `Machine` custom resource and AgentPools from the Azure portal (or CLI) is required in order to clean up the GPU nodes used by the old workspace.
   * Azure Policy addon now includes a Pod Disruption Budget (PDB) for the Gatekeeper webhook pods. This prevents interruptions to policy enforcement during cluster scaling or upgrade operations.
   * AKS will now enforce the limit of 10 unique CAs added to the node's trust store when using [Custom Certificate Authority](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/custom-certificate-authority).
   * Default maxSurge value to 10% for all new and existing clusters with Kubernetes versions >= 1.32.0.
   * Starting with Kubernetes 1.32, all Azure CNI NodeSubnet clusters will have the CNI installed via the Azure CNS DaemonSet instead of the CSE script.

>    * Updates to your HTTP Proxy configuration will now trigger a reimage. All of the node pools in your cluster will automatically reimage after an HTTP Proxy configuration is added or updated.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 7: This is currently toggled and not released yet. In LRB next week

   * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to [v1.31.5](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.31.5) on AKS 1.31, [v1.30.9](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.30.9) on AKS 1.30
   * Update Azure File CSI driver to [v1.31.4](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.31.4) on AKS 1.31, [v1.30.8](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.30.8) on AKS 1.30
   * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to [v1.25.3](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blob-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.25.3)  on AKS 1.31, [v1.24.7](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blob-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.24.7) on AKS 1.30
   * Update KAITO to [v0.4.4](https://github.com/kaito-project/kaito/releases/tag/v0.4.4).
   * Update Cilium to v1.17.0 for AKS clusters >= 1.32.0.
   * Update Azure Monitor Container Insights image to [v3.1.26](https://github.com/microsoft/Docker-Provider/releases/tag/3.1.26).
   * Update Azure Monitor metrics image to [v6.15.0](https://github.com/Azure/prometheus-collector/blob/main/RELEASENOTES.md#release-02-21-2025) for all AKS cluster versions addressingfor CVE-2024-45338.

>    * Update Credetial Provider to [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/), [v1.30.10](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.30.10/), [v1.31.4](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.31.4/), and [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/).

Author: ```suggestion
   * Update Credential Provider to [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/), [v1.30.10](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.30.10/), [v1.31.4](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.31.4/), and [v1.32.3](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/03/07/v1.32.3/).
```

   * Update the `azure-ip-masq-agent` DaemonSet to use the `ip-masq-v2 image` built with Dalec addressing [CVE-2024-5535](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-5535) and [CVE-2024-9143](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-9143).
   * Update NPM image tag to [v1.5.44](https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.5.44) to resolve CVEs in the Ubuntu base image, including [CVE-2025-0395](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-0395), [CVE-2024-12133](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-12133), [CVE-2024-12243](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-12243), [CVE-2024-13176](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-13176), [CVE-2024-9143](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-9143), [CVE-2024-45336](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45336), [CVE-2024-45341](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45341), and [CVE-2025-22866](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22866). 
   * Update Azure Policy add-on to v1.10.0 which uses gatekeeper [v3.18.2](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper/releases/tag/v3.18.2).
   * AKS Azure Linux v2 image has been updated to [202502.09.0](vhd-notes/AzureLinux/202502.09.0.txt).

>    * AKS Ubuntu 22.04 node image has been updated to [202502.09.0](vhd-notes/aks-ubuntu/AKSUbuntu-2204/202502.09.0.txt).

Reviewer 7: These node images were in the last release note. You should include the most recent vhd release.

Author: Yes, will do.

  * Fixed a bug where an AKS FIPS node may become a non-FIPS node after unattended upgrade and reboot.
  * Hotfixed a bug where we double counted windows vms in subnet size validation.
* Behavior Changes

>   * Added `pid.available<2000` to kubelet flag --eviction-hard, making the effective number of allocatable PIDs = kernel.pid_max - 2000 [eviction-signals](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/#eviction-signals)

Reviewer 9: Is this in the node configuration docs?

Author: This is from the last release notes. I fixed a formatting issue.
